- [Narrator] Hi and welcome
back to the programme.
In this video we're going to
cover something quite advanced
that we've seen before but we
didn't really know it worked.
I'm talking about
@classmethod or @staticmethod.
These are called
decorators and a decorator
is just a function that gets
called before another function.
We're also going to look
at importing other things.
In some cases, our Python
code may need to use
somebody else's code as well.
If somebody else has written
something that you can use,
then you shouldn't reinvent the wheel
and write everything again.
Python comes with a large
number of very useful libraries,
it's actually code that
someone else has written.
And in order to write decorators,
we need to use one of them.
So let's import it.
This is the functools library,
stands for function tools.
And we're gonna need it because
a decorator is going to essentially
going to use this library
to allow us to do
something with the methods.
And I'm going to create a
method called my_decorator
and it's going to take in a parameter.
The parameter, I'm going to call func.
You can call it whatever you want,
it's just a variable as you know.
Then, it's funny because in order to
declare a decorator, in
order to create a decorator,
we need to use a decorator,
which is quite redundant.
But I'm going to do @functools.wraps(func)
and then function_that_runs_func();
and then here's where it gets fun.
Print (*In the decorator!*) func()
and then return function_that_runs_func.
Okay, so this is my decorator.
It looks really horrible but that's what
a decorator is.
You have the decorator
and you have a function,
and this function wraps around.
This function wraps around the function
that you pass in as a parameter.
And then you can do things
before or after the function.
So here's what happens, really.
You say @my_decorator and
then you define a function,
print (*I'm the
function!*), my_function().
Okay, so this is pretty tough.
The first few times that
I looked at decorators
a while ago and they
were really confusing,
so hopefully we can dispel
some of that confusion
through this video.
The first thing that happens is
that you define your decorator, okay.
But really the interesting
bit happens in here.
You apply the decorator to my_function,
so what that does, is
that changes my_function.
My_function executes this code,
so what we're gonna do is we're gonna pass
my_function to the decorator as func.
And then we're going to create a function
that's going to wrap around it.
And it's gonna say (*In the decorator!*),
And then it's going to run the function,
remember this function
here is the parameter,
which is my_function, so
we're gonna run that function
and print this code and then after that,
we're gonna print after the decorator.
And we return the function_that_runs_func
and this function here, that runs
this print statement, the function,
and this print statement.
This function here is
the one that replaces
my_function, so then
my_function stops being
my_function and it becomes
this function here,
which is this.
So it's a pretty mind
boggling sort of thing
that's going on here.
So what we do is we pass my_function,
create a function that uses it,
and then replace my_function
by that function.
So, essentially we're
extending the function
with some stuff in front
and some stuff after.
Let's clear this and run it, and
as you can see, we get in the decorator,
I'm the function, and after the decorator.
We cannot run func if we want it
and then we just get this code here.
As you can see, this function is
essentially getting replaced by this one,
this function here.
So we no longer even call this.
Your decorator should
always call the function,
because if not, really it doesn't matter
what you're decorating because it's never
going to run.
So make sure to always call the function
from your decorator, and this is the way
that decorators are built.
So you're passing
my_function to the decorator
and then you're wrapping
another function around it.
This is some magic that
happens in functools
and I'm not going to
go into how this works.
And then basically, this
function_that_runs_func
is what runs some stuff in front,
then runs the function, then
runs some stuff after it,
then returns the value that is
what replaces this function here.
When you run the function, then
what you're really
running is this function.
So I hope that makes sense.
This is what a simple
decorator looks like.
In the next video, we're going to look at
complex decorators,
which are slightly more
annoying, so I will see
you in the very next video
and we're gonna look at that, and
hopefully with those two, you're going to
complete your Python
knowledge and we'll be able to
move into creating
(inaudible), which is the focus
of this course; so I'm really excited to
guide you into the next video and beyond.
I'll see you then.